[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The Mnemonic Induction of
Lucid Dreams, or MILD, M-I-L-D,
is a technique developed
by Stephen LaBerge,
and it is designed to help you
achieve lucidity by exercising
your subconscious memory through
intentions and affirmations.
Before venturing into
the MILD technique,
make sure you have a
journal next to your bed
so that you can make it a
habit to capture your dreams
and increase your
dream recall over time.
Writing your dreams
down will help
you to discover recurring
elements or characters
within your dreams
called dream signs.
You will be using imagery that
already appears in your dreams
quite often, and you
will be transforming them
into reality checks.
Whenever you see
that dream sign,
you will perform
a reality check,
and this will serve as
a trigger for lucidity.
The MILD technique helps you
notice that you're dreaming
through a series of steps.
In a sense, you will have
rehearsed becoming lucid
and picked the recurring
elements or dream signs that
are there to indicate to
your subconscious mind
that you are dreaming.
You can practice this guided
journey in the evening.
And if you also want to
practice the Wake Back
to Bed method, which
involves waking up
after about five hours
of sleep and listening
to the affirmations
section of this recording
once again for a short
while as you fall back
into your last dream cycle,
REM, you may do so as well.
Set your alarm at this moment
if that's what you wish to do.
You can also just
use this recording
to fall asleep during
the affirmations knowing
that your subconscious
mind will be
absorbing the wonderful
suggestions for lucidity.
But before we dive into
the guided journey,
let's settle our bodies into
a nice relaxing position
with your eyes closed.
Find a comfortable
position on your bed.
Make sure you will
not be disturbed
for the remainder
of this recording
and begin focusing
on your breath.
Take a deep breath
in through your nose,
letting the air fill your tummy,
and exhale through your mouth.
Let it all come out slowly.
Take another deep breath
through your nose,
and slowly exhale
through your mouth.
Now allow your breathing to
settle into its natural rhythm
as you prepare yourself for
a deep, relaxing meditation.
No matter what sort
of day you've had,
this is a moment that
you have all to yourself,
and you give yourself
permission to let go and unwind.
A moment to think
about things you
love such as dreaming
and becoming lucid.
Know that you can at any time
wake up in case you need to
and you're always in control.
Now bring your focus
back into your breath.
Visualize yourself inhaling
light and exhaling tension.
You slowly begin to feel a
nice and soothing warm energy
around your feet
relaxing all the muscles
around your toes and heel.
The warm relaxing feeling moves
up to your ankles and calves
relaxing all the big
and small muscles.
You feel peaceful
and relaxed as you
feel the warm,
relaxing energy enter
your legs through your
knees and upper thighs,
relaxing all the
muscles in your legs.
Your legs are beginning
to feel heavy and relaxed.
The warm and soothing
feeling enters your buttocks,
pelvic area, and lower
abdomen releasing all tension
and just relaxing.
The warm, relaxing feeling
moves up into your chest,
and moving up through
your spine enveloping
your whole upper body
as the warm energy
moves up over your shoulders and
into your arms, elbows, wrists,
hands, and fingers.
The energy moves
up into your neck,
traveling up to your
chin, jaw, nose, and eyes,
relaxing all the
muscles of your face.
The wave of relaxation
now travels up
to your forehead and scalp
relaxing your head completely.
You feel good, and calm,
and completely relaxed
enjoying having nothing
to do but relax,
basking in the warm
and relaxing feeling.
And from this relaxed
state of being,
I would like you to
set your intention
to have a lucid dream tonight.
And since we haven't yet
picked our dream sign,
I would like to
ask you, is there
a recurring object, setting,
or element in your dreams?
Something that you
dream about often.
It can be any dream symbol
that is familiar to you.
Now set an intention
that the next time you
see this recurring dream
sign, you will become lucid.
Now, I would like you to
recall the last dream you had
with that recurring
dream symbol.
Really go back into that dream
and imagine all the details
that you can, except
this time, imagine
that you did notice
the dream sign,
and ask yourself the
question, "Am I dreaming?"
And imagine yourself
coming to the realization
that, yes, indeed,
you are dreaming.
Imagine becoming lucid
within that dream
as a result of the realization.
Now remember, we
are rehearsing this
so that your mind
exercises this ability.
This is where we are
experiencing and building
the dream world in
the most vivid way
involving all of our senses.
How do you feel?
What do you see?
What would you like to see?
What would you like to
explore in your dream world?
What would you like to eat?
Who would you like to see?
Really engage all
of your senses.
Have fun creating the dream
experience of your choice.
Imagine all the smells,
tastes, sights, and touch.
Really become aware of yourself
and of your surroundings.
The possibilities are endless.
You can fly if
you like, call out
to your higher self or a
loved one who has passed away.
You can eat your favorite foods
or travel through the stars.
Really take your
time in recreating
your ideal lucid dream, because
the next time you become lucid,
you will have a
plan and you will
be able to experiment
in real lucidity.
One of the most common reality
checks that a lot of people
use and have been
successful with is looking
at the palms of your
hands during the day
and asking yourself,
"Am I dreaming?"
And if everything looks normal,
then you're not dreaming.
But at some point,
you're going to notice
your hands in the dream,
and you will ask yourself,
"Am I dreaming?"
And your hands might
begin to do funny things.
Some people use the method
of pushing your finger
through the palm of
your hand and ask
themselves, "Am I dreaming?"
And if they are
dreaming, the finger
will go right through the hand.
You can get as
creative as you like.
But the most important thing is
to practice this reality check
in your waking reality
because the more you practice,
the more the probability of
it showing up in your dream.
While in the lucid
dream, you can also
practice speaking out
loud some commands.
You can rub your
hands together and you
can say, "Stability now."
Or "I am grounded.
I feel stable,
balanced, and grounded."
You can get creative with what
you say out loud in the dream.
You can also find
different ways to fly.
Some people jump
up into the sky,
others use a swimming
motion, while others just
levitate by command--
"fly now."
Remember, this is your
playground and your experience,
and there is no wrong or right.
You will discover your unique
technique as the time goes by.
Remembering your dreams is the
first step toward lucidity,
because the more
dreams you remember,
the higher the probability of
recognizing your dream signs.
Everyone can lucid-dream.
It is all about practice.
And so don't give up if it
doesn't happen the first time.
Sometimes it's immediate,
but other times it
takes days, weeks, or months.
Either way, it is
worth the practice
because you get to
have fun in your dreams
and you can have significant
experiences that will help you
in your waking reality.
Becoming awake in your
dreams is possible,
and you are here right
now to experience this.
And now, I am going to
say some affirmations--
so that your subconscious mind
can absorb this information
as its own.
I am a lucid dreamer.
I now remember my dreams.
I have crystal-clear
dream recall.
I notice my dream signs.
I am fully aware of
when I am dreaming.
I wake up within my dream.
My dream memory is perfect.
I love journaling.
Writing down my dreams
comes easily to me.
My dream consciousness
is strong.
I successfully perform
my reality checks.
I notice my dream signs
and I become lucid.
I am always lucid when dreaming.
I am awake inside my dreams.
I remember my dreams clearly.
I realize that I am dreaming.
I will lucid-dream tonight.
I will wake up within my dream.
Recognizing my dream signs comes
easily and effortlessly to me.
I remember my dreams every day.
I lucid-dream every night.
I love flying in my dreams.
I can control my dreams.
I will recognize
when I am dreaming,
and I will become lucid.
I enjoy remembering my dreams.
I love lucid-dreaming.
I awaken inside my dream.
I am a natural lucid dreamer.
My reality checks have been
successful in gaining lucidity.
I am happy when I practice
my lucid dream checks.
Am I dreaming?
Yes, I am.
I am a natural-born
lucid dreamer.
My dream memory is amazing.
I love writing down my
dreams in my journal.
I am fulfilled by my
lucid-dreaming practice.
I love creating inside my dream.
I feel light and
ecstatic within my dream.
I am having fun
inside my lucid dream.
I'm connected to my highest
self within my lucid dreams.
The possibilities are
endless, and I am here for it.
I am a creator in my dreams.
I am a lucid dreamer.
I now remember my dreams.
I have crystal-clear
dream recall.
I notice my dream signs.
I am fully aware of
when I am dreaming.
I wake up within my dream.
My dream memory is perfect.
I love journaling.
Writing down my dreams
comes easily to me.
My dream consciousness
is strong.
I successfully perform
my reality checks.
I notice my dream signs,
and I become lucid.
I am always lucid when dreaming.
I am awake inside my dreams.
I remember my dreams clearly.
I realize that I am dreaming.
I will lucid-dream tonight.
I will wake up within my dream.
Recognizing my dream signs comes
easily and effortlessly to me.
I remember my dreams every day.
I lucid-dream every night.
I love flying in my dreams.
I can control my dreams.
I will recognize
when I am dreaming
and I will become lucid.
I enjoy remembering my dreams.
I love lucid-dreaming.
I awaken inside my dream.
I am a natural lucid dreamer.
My reality checks have been
successful in gaining lucidity.
I am happy when I practice
my lucid dream checks.
Am I dreaming?
Yes, I am.
I am a natural-born
lucid dreamer.
My dream memory is amazing.
I love writing down my
dreams in my journal.
I am fulfilled by my
lucid dreaming practice.
I love creating inside my dream.
I feel light and
ecstatic within my dream.
I am having fun
inside my lucid dream.
I'm connected to my highest
self within my lucid dreams.
The possibilities are
endless, and I am here for it.
I am a creator in my dreams.
I am a lucid dreamer.
I now remember my dreams.
I notice my dream signs.
I have crystal-clear
dream recall.
I am fully aware of
when I am dreaming.
I wake up within my dream.
My dream memory is perfect.
I love journaling.
Writing down my dreams
comes easily to me.
My dream consciousness
is strong.
I successfully perform
my reality checks.
I notice my dream signs
and I become lucid.
I am always lucid when dreaming.
I am awake inside my dreams.
I remember my dreams clearly.
I realize that I am dreaming.
I will lucid-dream tonight.
I will wake up within my dream.
Recognizing my dream signs comes
easily and effortlessly to me.
I remember my dreams every day
I lucid-dream every night.
I love flying in my dreams
I can control my dreams.